>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
let's get our dashboard stuff in here so
we can have a nice-looking dashboard.
Here we go.
I just gonna grab this stuff and
just paste it in, boom.
Now that I have that,
we should have a dashboard.
If I didn't break anything
that looks like this,
it's still not perfectly looking cuz
we still have to go fix the layout.
The layout has no styling and
no components in it and stuff like that.
But there we go.
And then for
the layout we'll do the same thing.
Should be down here.
There we go.
We'll grab the layout.
It still has our suspense right there,
as you can see.
But now we're gonna get rid of that
loading and we're gonna add this skeleton that I
made that makes the dashboard
look kinda cool when it loads in.
So go to our layout.
We're gonna paste that in there.
Still have our suspense.
And actually might even wanna comment.
Well, this navigation might
cause issues for now.
We'll see, but actually you might
wanna comment that out for now.
Actually, we didn't get there yet.
So we'll do that.
We'll go back, we'll refresh.
It's happening so
fast that you can't see a skeleton.
So this is why I introduced
those mock delays.
So what you could do, you can go to
actions, you can go to issues, I'm sorry,
not actions.
Look, see, I almost fell for it.
Go to right here, getIssues, and
you can add a mock delay in here.
Await mockDelay for like a second or
something like that and
you'll see the skeleton.
And this is never cached.
That's why we see the skeleton every time
cuz it's calling that function every
single time.
It is hitting that mock
delay every single time.
This was not the previous
behavior on Next.js.
If I were to refresh this
previously without that flag,
it would just show up
instantly cuz it was cached.
I had to do a hard refresh
on the browser to clear it,
which is great, but
I wanna be in control of that.
Cool, okay,
now let's see why I commented out
the navigation cuz it's gonna be busted.
I'm pretty sure it is or maybe we fix it,
I don't know, let's see.
Maybe, okay, maybe we did fix it.
I thought it was gonna show an error for
something, but
maybe I didn't add that yet.
Did I add that?
No, we already had, never mind,
I did handle it, sorry.
We are good to go.
Cool, so this is a great use case
to show you something cool here.
So if you look at the navigation,
it shows the user email here.
After you sign in, it's happening so
fast that you can't really see it.
But if I put a mock delay in here.
Let's do one right here inside
of getCurrentUser and
then inside of navigation.
What do I have for a fallback?
That's a shitty fallback [LAUGH].
Wish I had a better one, but
you'll see what I'm talking about.
Actually, that's a shitty fallback.
Let me show you one that looks better.
If I had a skeleton,
this would look better.
I just don't feel like making one.
Let's just do loading for now.
This is where suspense comes in.
So this part of the app is dynamic and
then only this part is dynamic.
And I wanna walk you through how that is.
But this isn't.
So this loads up instantly
cuz it's static, right?
This page is dynamic cuz the whole
page is blocked by getting issues, so
it does not load up.
Although we could push that down even
more and load up this and this and
only have this be dynamic.
We could push it, we can keep pushing
it down, which is what I did here.
Instead of blocking the whole navigation
from loading until this came back,
I pushed it all the way down just to
this component is blocked, right?
So you can see it says
loading right there.
Just that one part, but
everything else rendered.
And this is where it starts
to get really powerful.
And this is what Next.js recommends.
It's like push it down as far as you can.
So like before we would like if I
needed to show the user in here,
somewhere in this component is where I
would fetch the user on the client, and
I'll be fine with that.
But now as we're getting things being done
on the server, you can just have just
this component right here do it,
right, and that's exactly what I did.
And so if you go look at
the navigation component,
it itself is a server component and
it calls suspense on this
user email component.
If I go look at this user email component,
it is a server component that
awaits getCurrentUser.
So it's being suspended
until that comes back.
And once it gets it,
then it shows the email.
So I pushed the call to get
the current user all the way
down to the component
that actually uses it.
Whereas I could have called getuser here,
but
that would have suspended this
whole navigation component and
it would have been blocked from
rendering until the user came back.
So the user would not have seen that panel
on the left until it fetched the user.
It's not a good experience.
Even worse, I could have called
getuser inside of the layout and
passed it as a prop to the navigation.
Now this whole page will be blocked.
The user won't see anything
until the user comes back.
And that's what happens
now in today's apps.
You just see a full page loading screen
until they get the data they want,
then they show you the whole thing.
Whereas now you can just go piece by
piece loading in the things that you need
to load in.
I think it's very powerful.
So push down your calls to get data as
close to where they're gonna be rendered
as possible, suspend them if they're
dynamic, use cache if they're not.
And yeah, you're gonna have a way
better performing app, I think.
Well, I know for sure.
Before we move on,
just wanted to show you an alternative
Next.js specific way to wrap
a route in a suspense.
So I talked about two ways.
So if we go look at our layout for
our dashboard,
we literally wrapped
the children in a suspense.
I said the second way is we could have
just made a component out here that
basically did this and then called that
component here and suspended it in here.
The other way is you could just make
a file in the directory called loading and
that will wrap the page
in a suspense as well.
So that should work actually.
So what we can do is we
can get rid of this.
I'm just gonna take this
dashboard skeleton.
We get rid of this,
I'm gonna put children back here.
We'll probably get our error back.
Well, turn it on.
Here, refresh that.
We'll get our error back saying like hey,
you gotta pick.
So what we can do is should be
able to add a loading here.
So loading definitely adds
a suspense to the component if it
should directly wrap the page.
So I'm just gonna say consts,
dashboard loading.
I guess I'm running out of
names at this point and
I'm just gonna return the skeleton and
import this skeleton.
I feel like it should have auto
imported but it doesn't love me.
So components, DashboardSkeleton.
Tripping.
Okay, just, how about you do that?
There we go.
Okay, cool.
So we got that.
Now, if we go back, same thing.
So loading is probably the cleaner way but
just showing you how to do it without
Next.js with just using React.
But if you just want Next.js to handle
it for you, just add a loading file.